Okay.
So let's understand how key how is the lowest related to finding articulation by intimidated?
How is it helping us?
Why did its use.
Well so.
Let's understand this by some normal example or an example.
It's a visualization.
I just want you to understand this visualization, because there can be numerous examples.
Right.
But all those examples can be easily related to this visualization.
I wanted to show you.
Okay.
I'm not I'm like, I can do a lot of animation and stuff and also teach you by the same method.
But I don't believe in all those things.
I believe in simplicity.
If you keep things simple and you give the best you have, then I think you can easily understand a
lot of topics.
Well, so first of all, let's say I was on some road node.
Yeah.
So initially, I wasn't, um, neutered.
Right.
And I traversed.
Traversed, traversed with some not into.
And I'm already like, fine, I've already figured out what is discovery of current and what is lowest
off current.
I have these two values with me.
Off.
I didn't.
We discovered.
Discovered of it.
So this is the last thing that we are discussing in our relation points in bridges.
After this, like after this only code will be left to understand nothing else.
So after this will go.
So right now I'm talking about a relationship between a current node and it.
So let's say X.
It can have managers x, y, z.
Many, right.
But right now I'm just talking about one of its site.
I'm talking about the soul guarding the Knicks.
Well.
Okay.
So we will also be doing what is our discovery of X and we will also be doing what is the lowest of
X, what is the lowest of x mean that if I go in the subtree of x, if I keep going this arbitrary of
x, then how far?
Above.
Can I go?
Right.
The guys here will be only talking about two dumbs that is like, listen very properly because it's
very easy and I don't want you to skip anything.
So here we'll be talking about Lewis traffic's.
What is Lewis to fix?
If I start from x and go downwards, then what is the least?
Because it's going to take me above.
And what is the back of that thinking that can take me as much as possible.
Right.
So it is law of X.
Case law fixes the term that I've already described.
And we'll be talking about the second term called Discovery of Current.
Only these two terms will be compared to find our articulation point simply state law of X and discovery
of current state.
So they tell me if law of X.
That is the first guess I'm digging.
But for right now, we are we are focusing on figuring out whether it is a bridge or not.
Bridget.
But at this age, between current and this child is a bridge, age or not.
Are they not figuring this out?
It is a bridge or what is a bridge?
This guy's quickly realizing that if I remove this as it will be divided into more connected components,
and if I remove this edge, that means gate.
And if it is a bridge, if it is a bridge, then we can easily notice that low of x.
Low affects should be greater than the discovery of current.
Days.
They pause the video for a moment and think about it.
If I start from this decision.
Yeah.
If I start from subtree of x.
And I am able to like remain in the subtree of x.
There's the meaning of it now.
Kilo loaf x is greater than discovery of current.
The lowest, the lowest I am, which I can go to.
It is greater than the discovered time of the current node.
So if this is the case, that means the edge between eggs and current is a bridge.
Why?
Yes, because if I'm starting from X going downwards and I cannot traverse some variable current, I'm
not I can't there was not even a delta current, not even to current.
I'm not able to traverse above X.
Basically.
That means if I remove this edge, then this complete portion, the complete subtree of x will be disconnected,
right?
So if the complete subtree of x will be disconnected, that means the whole subtree of x will give me
a new connected component and that will determine Brigitte.
Ladies.
And now let's figure it out.
What if?
So let's see this case when lieu of X is greater than or equal to discover of current.
When again with this case guys, this can be a case when a particular package.
When a particular package in the subtree of.
X is pointing to current.
Let's see, these are back as we just pointing to current node eight.
That means that disk over time is equal to the current note.
But guys, then will this edge, as we are wondering about, will this be a bridge?
It should not be able to generate buy because if lowest of x.
Is equal to discovered of current.
That means there was some package which is coming to discovery of content.
That's why it's discovery.
Time is being taken into consideration.
If this is the case, that means this cannot be a bridge.
Because if I remove this, then the subtree of x.
Is still connected to current by some of the wreckage.
It means the graph is not being divided into more connected.
They'd.
Who?
This.
If I'm removing this edge, then still.
Still the results from current.
These are still.
There's the bathroom carrying two separate effects.
That means it should not be upgraded.
They?
When will it be abridged?
There's only one bathroom got into.
That is only through this.
It abridged eight days.
So let's remove all of them.
Certainly not this one.
I hope you understood you understood that even when I by my not using equal to here if it is equal to
that then also these are portrayed.
And and of course if.
Lowest of x low of x is like less than discovery of current.
What does this mean?
That I'm going somewhere above current?
Oh, here we don't happen.
We don't need a discussion.
Right?
Because if I remove this bridge, if I study, it's not abraded.
If I remove this edge, then the whole.
A eye view is connected to the whole lower subtree all a graph is connected to the lower graph and we
are a bridge because low affects is less than discovered.
Time of current edge is pointing somewhere above current.
Right, guys.
So this was the first definition of.
The bridge.
They took only one thing that we need.
So there are only two things that we need to know for every note.
First is Louis time, and the second is discovered by.
Right.
And Vice just saying, if Lewis time of X is greater than the discovered time of current note, then
that will be our research.
So it's between Exxon Current.
Well.
So let me like.
As between a current and ex is a bridge.
Edge.
This holds true.
So this was about Bridgegate.
This was about a bridge connection.
Now we have to talk about articulation point.
Well.
So when can I see the current audience articulation boys?
Again, very, very simple thing, right?
Just think about the above case, the bridge case.
If I remove this node, that means this subtree should get disconnected from the above part.
Because the coroner is already removed from the above, the subject should remain disconnected.
That means the package, the minimum package which is pointing above, should be greater than equal
to the current load.
There's only one difference that blew off X.
Now it should be greater than or equal to discovered of current by equal to base.
Now for the articulation point.
If content is to be an articulation point, then even if there is an edge which is pointing to the current,
or if there is a package which is even taking me to the current node, then also current will be an
articulation point because this subtree is getting disconnected because I I'll remove current and it's
just in there just to read.
But this package will be removed even if you're just pointing to the discovery of current.
But if this package is like going somewhere above it is going somewhere above in the graph, then.
This current or cannot be called articulation point.
Because if I remove this current will, the above graph is connected to the lower graph.
Right.
So this was about articulation points in bridges.
Let's have some good let's have an example and figure this out.
Let's have an example.
Or what we can do is we've already made many examples.
Okay, so let's move let's go to those examples and start comparing these two terms.
Well.
So coming to this example is.
Oh, let's talk about wondering, do I?
So what are the terms that we need here in lieu of x?
X is a child of current.
If it is greater than discovered of current, then it is a bridge.
So let's talk about bridges.
Okay.
So.
Are there any bridges in this?
If we can see.
Yeah, this.
This can be a bridge, right?
So let's talk about this edge.
This edge.
As we can see, that low of X, which is five, it is greater than discovered of green bridges.
I discovered of and discovered of Korean War.
Just seven days.
The five is greater than four.
That means it is a bridge.
Otherwise we don't have a bridge, which you can easily take.
Now.
This.
The second is that.
Yeah.
This again is if lieu of x is greater than equal to discovered of current.
So this will give me a relation point.
So one is not in articulation going to is not an articulation point.
He is not an he b is not an articulation point.
8056.
I know this.
No food?
No.
These are not in our relations when a seven is in our relation point eight.
So at seven we can see this, that discovery of seven which is a very seven.
Yeah.
Seven is their discovery of seven is for.
Right.
The discovery of seven is less than equal to Norfolk's what it takes by just five.
So we can see forest as anywhere to fight.
Norfolk's, which is eight and its lowest is five.
Release.
If this condition was true, that means the No.
Number seven was an articulation point.
Well, let's move above.
Okay.
So here you're going to have another doubted.
Tell me whether it is another racing point or not.
It is not an allegation point.
Right, because I'm removing it.
It's a live note.
If I remove it, all it said is still the graph is going to do it in an unbroken.
I don't believe it is one eight, so we will never consider it a note as an articulation point if it
does not have a subtree.
Because there is no X for it.
No.
No surgery means no child offered.
It does not have a target.
It cannot be an articulation point.
Let's move over and let's discuss about this.
I don't think much discussion is required now.
I hope you must have understood why.
What is this cover time?
What is the lowest time and how is lowest time being used to calculate articulation, point and budget?
Edges of bridges if an olive.
From the subtree of x the child.
I can only come back to this only.
At most I cannot go above.
That means there was only one pod between current and ex.
If there was only one wall between Carrington, it was a bridge.
And if I'm able to go to this node, that means it can be an articulation point to.
Hey, because if I remove this, I also remove this because I remove this edge and the down the subtree
of x will be disconnected from the above graph.
It is patterned off current.
Eight.
But that's always.
You're doing my best.
But yeah, it's a little tricky topic.
In the next part we'll be discussing about.
What I want you to do is like make some five, five, six random small groups right there discovered
in Lewiston and then try to.
I mean, this condition, right?
There's just one small thing that is still left over.
For the root note, we have special conditions.
If I want to know whether I would notice a.
Of what we say.
Yeah.
Articulation point.
If we if I want to know then whether or not is an articulation point or not, we have some specific
conditions for it.
Okay.
So, okay, let's discuss those specific conditions in this video only.
Hey.
So let's talk about the do not case.
And this is one way to.
And this as we can see, that there is no above graph on the graph to which one is connected.
Okay.
But we cannot say that if I go into subtree of one and then I can go above because there is no node
above.
Okay.
So what happens if I remove and root node?
What happens if I remove an ordinance of what would not be?
We have some special conditions and it's a very small condition.
A very simple condition.
Is that if.
A number of child.
Number of child.
Of this route north of route north.
It's greater than one.
In their day FSG.
Then.
It is our articulation point.
Well.
So now we have a third thing.
There is a number of child in India history.
Again, it's a very simple thing is how to find out the number of child in India history.
Whenever we are going to a new node which is not visited, it is a child of the current rate.
So let's go to simple example.
I started from one.
I went to two.
From two I went to.
Do you know?
And from three a.
We're running them backwards to do anything backwards from one guy.
I was just able to go to to write directly, only to visit.
I love when he's not as I love one.
Late in the day, FSG.
Hey.
But how many child does this one have?
It is only one thing.
That is true.
So will it be an articulation point?
No.
But I know articulation being the number of child of the road.
Nought, it should be greater than one.
It should be greater than one.
Why am I saying greater than one?
Because, again, let's do a normal visualization, a very simple one.
It's it is one and it has one, Julia.
And it is some second child.
You.
So later there were more than one.
So if I remove this, that means this whole subtree.
This first subtree is disconnected from the second subtree.
These two subjects are disconnected from each other.
That means.
When wasn't articulation point because removing it they might get off into a more connected component.
But now if they were connected, if they were connected somewhere down.
That means this cannot be taken.
Told them.
They.
Because that's how the defense works.
Rain.
Uh, let me give you an example.
It's.
I had this one.
You.
And what?
I don't know what will happen.
Davis will start from one quarter to the number of J.Lo venues to right now, number of J.Lo venues.
One right know because I went to I rented three.
I came back to do I came back to one then I went to four.
So number of channels to.
I certainly do.
And the Secretary's for we have to jail her.
So removing one will give me an articulation point.
Give me a it will be an articulation point.
But what if three and four were connected?
But in this graph, what if three and four were connected, guys?
Then how would there be a physical feat that you would start from?
One, it will go to two, it will go to three and it will go to four.
Now goes Ford is visited.
Right.
So I cannot go too forward from one.
No, I went to to arrange the trip and do for what is visited.
Come back to three.
Come back to to come back to one and not go to Ford because it is visited under done back.
How many child of another Durga is now in the d of history we have only one child who will no one be
in our division.
Point?
No.
Always.
I hope you got this point.
What is the meaning of the number of change made in their DFC?
In their DFC?
GC everything is related to the offseason packages a.
So seeing the next video going in the next part, I will be coding all of this that I have already discussed.
Eight.
And we will be finding our discovered Louis time in C++ of some graphs and also print bridges will also
print isolation points for some random gaps with those in the next four days.
Thank you.